Move own CA transport layer mtls guidance to security docs (#3932)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/security/self-tls-considerations.md

---
navigation_title: Considerations
applies_to:
  deployment:
    self:
    eck:
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
navigation_title: External CA considerations
---

# Considerations for using an external CA for transport layer security

> By default, {{es}} uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to secure node-to-node transport connections. With mTLS, data is encrypted in transit and both nodes must present valid certificates when connecting. Each node requires that certificates be issued by a trusted certificate authority, ensuring that only authorized nodes can connect. Configure trusted certificate authorities using settings in the [`xpack.security.transport.ssl.*`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/security-settings.md#transport-tls-ssl-settings) namespace, such as `xpack.security.transport.ssl.certificate_authorities` and `xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.path`. 

Author: ```suggestion
By default, {{es}} uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to secure node-to-node transport connections. Mutual TLS means that data is encrypted in transit, ensuring confidentiality and integrity, and also that both nodes in a connection must present a valid certificate to the other node when establishing the connection. Each node requires that certificates be issued by a trusted certificate authority, ensuring that only authorized nodes can connect. Configure trusted certificate authorities using settings in the [`xpack.security.transport.ssl.*`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/security-settings.md#transport-tls-ssl-settings) namespace, such as `xpack.security.transport.ssl.certificate_authorities` and `xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.path`. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we should add here some more context about the different kinds of CA: Elasticsearch comes with the `elasticsearch-certutil` tool that allows you to create a properly-configured private CA and issue certificates for the nodes in the cluster, but it is also compatible with certificates obtained from a different CA managed using other tools. This page is about the latter case.

Certificates used for mTLS must either have no Extended Key Usage extension, or include both `clientAuth` and `serverAuth` values in the extension. Public certificate authorities typically omit the `clientAuth` value in the Extended Key Usage extension, making them unsuitable for mTLS. 

### Transport certificates vs. HTTP certificates

Transport certificates have different security requirements than [HTTP certificates](/deploy-manage/security/secure-cluster-communications.md#encrypt-http-communication). HTTP connections don't typically use mTLS because HTTP has its own authentication mechanisms. Because of this, HTTP certificates usually don't need to include the `clientAuth` value in their Extended Key Usage extension. HTTP certificates can come from public or organization-wide certificate authorities, while transport certificates should use a cluster-specific private CA. In most cases, you should not use the same certificate for both HTTP and transport connections.

## Turning off mTLS for transport connections [turn-off-mtls]

> If your environment has some other way to prevent unauthorized node-to-node connections, you can disable mTLS by setting `xpack.security.transport.ssl.client_authentication: none`. You can still use non-mutual TLS for encryption by setting `xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: true`. With non-mutual TLS, transport certificates don't require the `clientAuth` value in the Extended Key Usage extension.

Reviewer: Likewise here could we spell out that non-mutual TLS still guarantees confidentiality and integrity?

---
navigation_title: Considerations
applies_to:
  deployment:
    self:
    eck:
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
navigation_title: External CA considerations
---

> # Considerations for using an external CA for transport layer security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Considerations for using an external certificate authority for transport layer security
```

 I'd prefer we avoid the `CA` abbreviation, it's too overloaded, but if we do use it we should spell it out until we've defined it.

Or maybe just

```suggestion
# Using an external certificate authority for transport layer security
```

Also "transport layer security" is what TLS stands for, but that applies to all secure network connections (HTTPS, LDAPS etc). Here we're only talking about "transport" in the sense of Elasticsearch node-to-node connections which is a confusing overload of terminology but we should at least avoid the phrase "transport layer security".

How about these?

```suggestion
# Using an external certificate authority to secure node-to-node connections
```

```suggestion
# Securing node-to-node connections using an external certificate authority
```

By default, {{es}} uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to secure node-to-node transport connections. Mutual TLS means that data is encrypted in transit, ensuring confidentiality and integrity, and also that both nodes in a connection must present a valid certificate to the other node when establishing the connection. Each node requires that certificates be issued by a trusted certificate authority, ensuring that only authorized nodes can connect. Configure trusted certificate authorities using settings in the [`xpack.security.transport.ssl.*`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/security-settings.md#transport-tls-ssl-settings) namespace, such as `xpack.security.transport.ssl.certificate_authorities` and `xpack.security.transport.ssl.truststore.path`. 

> {{es}} comes with a built-in tool called [`elasticsearch-certutil`](/deploy-manage/security/set-up-basic-security.md), which you can use to create and manage a dedicated certificate authority for each of your clusters, and to issue TLS certificates from this certificate authority. If you prefer not to use `elasticsearch-certutil`, then you must obtain the certificates from another certificate authority using standard TLS tools. This page explains the requirements and best practices to ensure that these certificates work correctly and protect your cluster properly.

Reviewer: Can we define the `external certificate authority` term in this paragraph?
